SPECIAL RULES
13
RULES PRIORITY & STACKING EFFECTS
Most units have one or more special rules that affect the way they
behave, and that sometimes go against the standard rules. When
you come across one of these situations, the special rule always
takes precedence over the standard rules.
If multiple special rules happen at the same time, and it’s not clear
which should be done first, if all the rules affect only one player,
then that player may decide the order. If the rules affect multiple
players, then the players roll-off and the winner picks the order.
Effects from multiple instances of the same special rule or spell
don’t stack, unless it is a rule with (X) in its name, or unless it is
specified otherwise.
SPECIAL RULES REFERENCE
Aircraft
May only use Advance actions, moving in a straight line, and adding
30” to its total move (even if Shaken). Aircraft ignore all units and
terrain when moving and stopping, can’t seize or contest
objectives, can’t be charged, and units targeting them get -12” to
their range.
Note that since Aircraft are flying high above the ground, only the
actual model counts (base doesn’t block movement or line of sight,
and units may move and shoot under it). Aircraft can’t move into
the table edges to move less than 30”, and their mandatory move
doesn’t break the staying idle requirement to stop being Shaken.
Ambush
May be set aside before deployment. At the start of any round after
the first, may be deployed anywhere over 9” away from enemy
units. Players alternate in placing Ambushers, starting with the
player that activates next. Units that deploy via Ambush can’t seize
or contest objectives on the round they deploy.
AP(X)
Targets get -X to Defense rolls when blocking hits from weapons
with this special rule.
Artillery
May only use Hold actions. When this model shoots at enemies over
9" away, it gets +1 to hit rolls. When enemy units shoot at this
model from over 9" away, they get -2 to hit rolls.
Bane
Ignores Regeneration, and when attacking the target must re-roll
unmodified Defense results of 6.
Note that a die roll may only be re-rolled once, so if another 6 is
rolled after re-rolling Defense, then the hit is blocked.
Blast(X)
Ignores cover, and after resolving other special rules, each hit is
multiplied by X, where X is up to as many hits as models in the
target unit.
Example: A weapon with 2 Attacks and Blast(3) scores two hits
against a unit with 2 models. Each hit is multiplied by 2, so the target
takes a total of 4 hits.
Caster(X)
Gets X spell tokens at the start of each round, but can’t hold more
than 6 tokens at once. At any point before attacking, spend as
many tokens as the spell’s value to try casting one or more spells
(only one try per spell). Roll one die, on 4+ resolve the effect on a
target in line of sight. Models within 18” in line of sight of the
caster’s unit may spend any number of spell tokens at the same
time before rolling, to give the caster +1/-1 to the roll per token.
Note that Casters get spell tokens each round even if they are not
on the table (waiting to Ambush for example), and that the Caster’s
spells must be picked from their own faction.
Counter
Strikes first with this weapon when charged, and the charging unit
gets -1 total Impact rolls per model with Counter.
Example: A model with Impact(3) charges a unit with 1 model that
has Counter, so it only makes 2 Impact rolls.
Deadly(X)
Assign each wound to one model, and multiply it by X. Hits from
Deadly must be resolved first, and these wounds don’t carry over to
other models if the original target is killed.
Fast
Models with this special rule move +2” when using Advance and +4”
when using Rush/Charge.
Fear(X)
This model counts as having dealt +X wounds when checking who
won melee.
Fearless
When a unit where all models have this rule fails a morale test, roll
one die. On a 4+ it counts as passed instead.
Flying
Models with this special rule may move through units and terrain,
and ignore terrain effects whilst moving.
SPECIAL RULES
14
Furious
When charging, unmodified results of 6 to hit in melee deal 1 extra
hit (only the original hit counts as a 6 for special rules).
Example: A Furious model with a weapon with 1 Attack and Rending
scores one hit on a roll of 6, so it deals two hits, of which only the first
counts as having AP(+4) because of Rending.
Hero
Heroes with up to Tough(6) may deploy as part of one multi-model
unit without another Hero. The hero may take morale tests on
behalf of the unit, but must use the unit’s Defense until all other
models have been killed.
Note that when a Hero joins a unit, they count as part of that unit,
so the unit’s size is increased by 1, and even if the hero is the last
model remaining, it takes morale tests as the unit. This also means
that a hero may never leave its unit or join another one.
Example: A Hero joins a unit of [5] models, so the unit’s size is [6].
Once all other models have been killed, the Hero must take a morale
test whenever it takes wounds, and if it fails a morale test in melee it
will Rout, because it’s a unit with half or less of its starting size.
Immobile
Models with this special rule may only use Hold actions.
Impact(X)
Roll X dice when attacking after charging, unless fatigued. For each
2+ the target takes one hit.
Indirect
Gets -1 to hit rolls when shooting after moving. May target enemies
that are not in line of sight as if in line of sight, and ignores cover
from sight obstructions.
Limited
Weapons with this rule may only be used once per game.
Regeneration
When a unit where all models have this rule takes wounds, roll one
die for each. On a 5+ it is ignored.
Relentless
When this model shoots at enemies over 9" away, unmodified
results of 6 to hit deal 1 extra hit (only the original hit counts as a 6
for special rules).
Note: See examples from the Furious special rule for clarifications.
Reliable
Models attacks at Quality 2+ with this weapon.
Note that Reliable only changes the Quality value, so the roll can
still be modified, Fatigue still applies, etc.
Rending
Ignores Regeneration, and on unmodified results of 6 to hit, those
hits get AP(+4).
Scout
May be set aside before deployment. After all other units are
deployed, may be deployed anywhere fully within 12” of their
deployment zone. Players alternate in placing Scout units, starting
with the player that activates next.
Slow
Models with this special rule move -2” when using Advance, and -4”
when using Rush/Charge.
Stealth
When units where all models have this rule are shot from over 9"
away, enemy units get -1 to hit rolls.
Strider
May ignore the effects of difficult terrain when moving.
Surge
On unmodified results of 6 to hit, this weapon deals 1 extra hit (only
the original hit counts as a 6 for special rules).
Takedown
This model may pick any model in the target unit as its individual
target, which is resolved as if it was a unit of [1]. Takedown attacks
must be resolved before other weapons.
Note that other models in the target’s unit don’t block line of sight
or provide cover to the target model in the unit.
Example: A Hero with Stealth in a unit without Stealth is targeted by
a Takedown weapon. Since it’s resolved as a unit of [1], the attacker
gets -1 to hit from Stealth.
Thrust
When charging, gets +1 to hit rolls and AP(+1) in melee.
SPECIAL RULES
15
Tough(X)
This model must take X wounds before being killed. If a model with
tough joins a unit without it, then it is removed last when the unit
takes wounds. You must continue to put wounds on the tough
model with most wounds in the unit until it is killed, before starting
to put them on the next tough model (heroes must be assigned
wounds last, even if already wounded).
Transport(X)
May transport up to X models or Heroes with up to Tough(6), and
non-Heroes with up to Tough(3) which occupy 3 spaces each.
Transports may deploy with units inside, and units may enter/exit
by using any move action, but must stay fully within 6" of it when
exiting. Units inside/outside transports may not target other units
outside/inside transports, but may target the transport itself. When
a transport is destroyed, units inside must take a dangerous terrain
test, are Shaken, and must be placed fully within 6” of the transport
before it’s removed.
Note that units inside Transports are deployed at the same time as
the Transport, and units can’t both embark/disembark as part of
the same activation. Units may use Charge actions to disembark,
and they ignore the 1” move restriction when embarking (only one
model needs to reach the Transport for everyone to embark).
Example: Regular models and Heroes with Tough(3) or Tough(6)
occupy 1 space, Tough(3) models occupy 3 spaces, and models with
Tough(6) or higher can’t be transported. This means that a unit of 10
regular models with a Tough(3) Hero occupy 11 spaces in total.
Unstoppable
Ignores Regeneration, and ignores all negative modifiers to this
weapon.

PRE -MADE RULE PACKS
16
USING PRE -MADE RULE PACKS
The advanced rules were designed to give players the freedom to
customize their gaming experience however they like, to play the
version of the game that is perfect for them.
In order to help new players get started with the advanced rules,
we have provided pre-made rules packs, which allow you to play a
tailor-made version of the game in no-time.
Before the game, players can agree to use one of the following rules
packs in the game:
• Extended Core Pack
• Added Complexity Pack
• Competitive Play Pack
• Narrative Battles Pack
• Chaotic Rules Pack
Note that you shouldn’t feel limited by these pre-made packs, and
you can freely add or remove rules from any of them, to get the
best version of these packs for you.
EXTENDED CORE PACK
Adds a few extras to the core rules, whilst keeping things light.
To play with this pack, use the following rules:
• Advanced Terrain - Solid Buildings
• Advanced Deployment Styles
• Advanced Missions - Extra Missions
• Extra Actions
ADDED COMPLEXITY PACK
Extra rules that add more complexity to the game.
To play with this pack, use the following rules:
• Advanced Terrain - Solid Buildings
• Advanced Deployment Styles
• Advanced Missions - Extra Missions
• Advanced Missions - Side-Missions
• Advanced Actions - Extra Actions
• Advanced Actions - Action Boosting
• Advanced Casting - Currents of Power
• Advanced Casting - Living Spells
• Command Points







COMPETITIVE PLAY PACK
Extends the rules with more options for competitive play.
To play with this pack, use the following rules:
• Advanced Deployment Styles
• Advanced Missions - Extra Missions
• Advanced Missions - Side-Missions
NARRATIVE BATTLES PACK
Additional rules with small twists that help build a narrative.
To play with this pack, use the following rules:
• Advanced Terrain - Terrain Generator
• Advanced Terrain - Army Terrain
• Advanced Deployment Styles
• Advanced Missions - Extra Missions
• Advanced Actions - Hero & Monster Feats
• Advanced Casting - Relic Wargear
• Fog of War
• Unit Psychology
CHAOTIC RULES PACK
Lots of randomness which can be less balanced, but more fun.
To play with this pack, use the following rules:
• Advanced Terrain - Terrain Placement
• Advanced Deployment Styles
• Battlefield Effects - Special Conditions
• Battlefield Effects - Terrain & Objective Effects
• Random Events
• Brutal Damage
• Twists & Gambits